[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
Over the years, we have talked
about one world government,
the new world order,
globalization.
And that is our subject tonight
with Patrick Wood, author
of "Technocracy Rising,"
an incredible story
about what they want
to do with us, Patrick.
>>PATRICK WOOD: More likely what
they are doing to us right now.
>>NOORY: How did you
begin studying this?
>>WOOD: Well I got
associated with a man
by the name of Antony C.
Sutton back in 1977, late 1977.
And he had just been released
from the Hoover Institution
at Stanford University.
He was a scholar, a writer,
a very well-known person
at the time.
And he had been tracking the
Trilateral Commission, as I
had, from a different angle.
But we met kind of by chance
in New Orleans one time
on a conference we
were speaking at.
And we realized that
we had a huge story
that we were sitting on, the
formation of this organization
called the Trilateral
Commission and what
they had done to capture
the Carter administration.
Jimmy Carter,
Walter Mondale, they
were both members of the
Trilateral Commission
and then they proceeded
to stuff the cabinet
with members of the commission.
We were very concerned,
like what is this?
And so Sutton and
I began to write
a newsletter called
Trilateral Observer
and that became the
basis for our books,
"Trilaterals Over Washington."
And so over the years, our
research matured, I guess.
And Sutton passed in
2002, unfortunately.
But as I began to pick up
the research trail again,
I ran across historic
technocracy from the 1930s.
I had never heard of it before.
>>NOORY: And explain
what technocracy means.
>>WOOD: Well,
technocracy in the 1930s
was a movement that
started in earnest
at Columbia University, of
all places, in New York City.
And Columbia brought these
engineers and scientists
in to discuss creating a
new economic model that
would replace capitalism
and free enterprise.
This was during the
Great Depression.
It was a depressing time, right?
>>NOORY: Sure.
And they needed change.
>>WOOD: And they figured
they needed change.
And they kind of rose
up and said, well, it's
going to be we and
only we who can
create this economic system.
So they called it
technocracy and it
was to be based on
scientists and engineers
running everything directly.
No political process,
no Congress--
>>NOORY: That's dangerous.
>>WOOD: --just basically
them doing everything
according to their
scientific model, right?
I equated pretty quickly
this technocracy movement
with what the Trilateral
Commission wanted to do.
I didn't see this in
the '70s, but I saw it
once I discovered
historic technocracy.
The connection between
the two is first
that the Trilateral
Commission initially
said all over its
literature that they
wanted to create a new
international economic order.
That was their statement.
>>NOORY: That was the goal.
>>WOOD: That was the goal.
In 1974, the United
Nations passed a resolution
at their General
Assembly that called
for the creation of a new
international economic order.
>>NOORY: Go figure.
>>WOOD: Now you question,
OK, what does new mean?
It's kind of back to
the old Clinton days,
what does "is" mean--
what does "new" mean?
We didn't know in the '70s
what that really meant.
But now I look back--
my background is economics, of
course, and so is Sutton's--
I look back across
the economic history
going back even
thousands of years.
There has never once been an
alternative economic system
devised that would replace
the system of free barter.
Only technocracy is the only
one that you see looking back
in history that
specifically said
they're going to create
a new economic system
and it was going to be based
on resources instead of supply
and demand and free trade
between people and so on.
And it was going to be a
resource-based system where
they would control
both the resources
and the products that
would be produced from it.
And so this is what
became ultimately
we see this in expression
today in programs
like sustainable development
that the United Nations has.
They also call it a
new economic system.
>>NOORY: And so is it workable?
>>WOOD: In my opinion, no.
It will never work.
This is my opinion after
having looked at it
and understanding
traditional economics.
It will not work in the
end, but they think it will.
And you have the United
Nations pushing it now
to 193 nations around the world.
They've all signed onto it.
Everybody talks about
sustainable development today.
The key here that's
really hard to understand
is sustainable
development, which
is technocracy warmed
over from the '30s,
technocracy is an economic
system, not a political system.
These people hate politicians.
They have no use for
politicians whatsoever.
>>NOORY: Well, not
many people do.
>>WOOD: Well, we have these
complaints today, too,
that our politicians
start listening to us.
And it doesn't matter whether
you're Republican or Democrat,
everybody says the same thing.
We've lost control,
we're out of control.
So the fifth column
that's marching right now
are these scientists
and engineers
who have quietly
crept in and said,
look, you need to
let us run society;
you need to let us do
what is just right;
the science is
settled, after all.
We've figured it out,
we've got the PhDs.
>>NOORY: What form of
government, Patrick,
would that be if they had to
change into their own belief
system?
>>WOOD: It would be a direct
autocracy where things would
be controlled directly
by the scientists
and engineers with
no interference
from the people whatsoever.
>>NOORY: Isn't that dangerous?
>>WOOD: It is dangerous.
Yes, it is.
But this is the thinking of this
group of actors, if you will.
They're not political
actors because you typically
don't find them in politics.
>>NOORY: Why do they think
life would be better for us
under this kind of rule?
>>WOOD: This is still a
little bit of a mystery on how
a fellow human being who has
to take a shower in the morning
just like you and I do
and put his pants on--
well, there's women, too,
involved but it was probably
more kind of a male-dominated--
>>NOORY: They wear
pants now, too.
>>WOOD: That's right.
Yeah.
But it's kind of odd
that fellow human beings
would rise to a point where
they say that they can instruct
all the rest of the
human beings on Earth
to do what they think is right.
But to a technocrat
mind, apparently they
don't have any
problem with this.
They figure, well, it's
a cut and dried solution.
Science is what science is.
And if the scientific
consensus is
that we should all march
left or right or whatever,
then that's just the
way it needs to be.
So what's to discuss?
>>NOORY: Is it communist?
>>WOOD: No.
It's not communist.
>>NOORY: It's not.
>>WOOD: This is interesting.
This is difficult to
wrap one's head around.
There's a lot of similarities.
Communism is
autocratic, it's very
dictatorial in that sense--
somebody's going to tell you
what to do, micromanagement.
But technocracy back in the
'30s and the communist movement
back then, which was
pretty prominent too,
they hated each other's guts.
They absolutely had no
toleration for each other.
The communists wrote
against the technocrats
as just being all screwed
up and the technocrats said,
don't ever call us a communist.
And some people did.
Back then they said,
don't call us communists.
We're nothing like communism.
The reason is simple
and is kind of basic.
Communism is a political
system based on Marxism.
Technocracy is not a
political system at all;
it's an economic system.
So they felt like, we have
nothing to do with communism.
We're not a political system,
we don't use the politicians,
if you will.
Politicians are not to
represent the people.
The people don't basically
need representation.
We have figured out what
will make them happy
and what they should
do and we will simply
tell everybody what to do.
And of course, they're
just going to do it.
They never explained how.
They never explained why
people would go along
with the program.
And in that sense, it
was really kind of nutsy
and you wonder how did it--
it was rejected in
America, by the way,
by the end of the 1930s pretty
much, but it's coming back.
And it's interesting that these
glaring deficiencies have never
been explained.
For instance, the North American
technate that they predicted--
that's what they modeled their
whole thing after in the 1930s.
They had this map of the United
States, Canada, Mexico, Central
America, the top part
of South America.
All that was going to be
the giant technate that
was going to be managed by
scientists and engineers.
They never said how
are they going to get
Canada to go along with this?
How are they going
to get Mexico?
You can't just draw
a map and say, do it.
This is it.
But they had no
problem with that.
They figured, well,
of course they're
going to go along with it.
We have devised it.
Like why wouldn't--
>>NOORY: What would the
world be like, Patrick,
under technocracy?
>> In the Muslim world,
power is held by politicians
and business people who work
together to maintain the status
quo so that politicians retain
power and plutocrats retain
wealth.
They do this in plain sight, but
it doesn't have to be this way.
There are a number of different
power structures, many of which
are proven to work
throughout its history,
although one of the most
interesting alternatives
is entirely theoretical.
In a technocracy, power is
still held by an elite--
not an elite of plutocrats,
not an elite of aristocrats,
but an elite of
technocrats, experts
in science and technology.
The government would be run by
engineers and scientists who
can apply the scientific method
to solve real world issues.
Instead of electing
career politicians,
a small group of intellectuals
would be chosen to lead us.
They would focus on efficiency,
what practically works,
and the concept of morality
may become obsolete.
And it's that detail
which has people worried.
The claim that technocracy
can replace morality,
it makes technocracy sound
more like Orwell's nightmare
of a-realistic system.
We can't know for sure because
no such system has ever
been established,
but there have been
attempts to establish
a technocracy and many
still advocate for it today.
>>NOORY: I'm not sure
I'd like that, Patrick.
>>WOOD: A lot of
people don't like it.
Back in those days,
you could go to any car
dealer in the country and order
a technocracy gray automobile
like they were
driving in that video.
They had over 500,000
card-carrying, dues-paying
members back in those days.
That's a lot of people.
>>NOORY: It sure is.
>>WOOD: And so and
the fact that you
could buy a technocracy gray
car if you were technocrat,
it would come with the logo on
the side and the orange steel
wheels.
It was crazy back then and
it's just as crazy today.
>>NOORY: Well, what bothers
me about this system
is they said no elected
officials anymore.
Who would appoint them
to be judge and jury?
>>WOOD: They would be
self-appointed, ostensibly.
>>NOORY: Well, that's dangerous.
>>WOOD: Of course
it's dangerous.
>>NOORY: Very dangerous.
>>WOOD: They envision
a continental board
that would itself elect a
supreme director, if you will,
of the whole thing.
But they would all be comprised
of engineers and scientists.
It would look like an org
chart of a modern corporation,
basically.
But they had a board of
directors over the whole thing
and then they had various--
what did they call them--
social functions like military
and manufacturing and so on.
They had a hierarchy that didn't
include any representation
of the people at all.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>WOOD: It was just going
to be basic dictation.
>>NOORY: How would
this be implemented?
>>WOOD: Well, it's
being implemented by--
and I have to say
back in the 1930s,
they wrote down requirements.
Engineers are good at that,
you have to hand it to them.
They wrote down requirements
for us to look at today.
Part of the requirements
involved controlling energy,
for instance.
They wanted to control the
production and consumption
of energy.
So today we see smart grid being
implemented around the world,
we see--
>>NOORY: Sure.
Smart meters.
>>WOOD: We see smart meters,
we see cap and trade schemes
all over the place.
>>NOORY: I'm convinced, Patrick,
with that kind of a system
they would say, let's say
it's 100 degrees in St. Louis
and you want to run your
air conditioner at 72,
they would bop it back up to
80 and say, no, no, no, no, no.
We're running your air
conditioner at 80 degrees.
And they would control
it in every house.
>>WOOD: That's exactly
what they're pushing for.
And not only that, but they can
extract data from your house
as to your habits, as
to what you are doing
in any given part of the day.
Every electronic
device in your home
has an electronic
signature, whether it's
a motor or a wi-fi
router, whatever.
It has an electronic
signature that
can be identified what
these smart meters so they
know exactly what's
going on in your house.
They know when you're
taking a shower,
they know when
you're watching TV,
they know when you're
computing because they
can see the traffic--
>>NOORY: They know what
you're watching on television.
>>WOOD: They know what you're
watching on television.
This is collecting data that
can be used to manipulate
and control people.
You wouldn't know if
you built a factory
that you'd have to
build in a monitoring
system for the factory.
Because how would you know
what to do if something broke?
You just don't wait for the
whole factory to blow up,
you put a monitoring system in.
Well, the technocrat fifth
column, as I call it,
has been busy creating this
monitoring/infrastructure
system that can extract
data from all of society
in order to manage the system.
This is why we see the smart
grid movement, for instance.
This only started back
in 2009, by the way.
>>NOORY: Well, the
fact that we would
lose as people the ability
to try to somewhat control
our destiny.
But is that a bad thing
if they step in and make
things functional and
smooth and they work?
>>WOOD: We have always
needed experts in government,
let's face it.
We like to know when we flush
the toilet that the sewer
system is going to work
in our town, right?
>>NOORY: You don't
want it to back up.
>>WOOD: That's right.
So you don't appoint
the dog catcher
to be the in charge
of the sewage system.
You want to have
people that understand
how to make things
function, but you always
want to have that under the
control of representatives
of the people.
This is what a constitutional
republic is all about,
is representation and
having the people involved
and the political process
decide what you want to do.
Do you want a sewer system?
OK, yes we do.
OK, we want one.
Then we'll authorize
one and we'll
find somebody good to run it.
But you don't want to wipe
away the political system
and just let the
experts run everything.
That's the problem.
>>NOORY: Because what happens
if that expert decides they want
something for personal gain?
>>WOOD: Yes.
>>NOORY: Or something, and
they control it that way.
>>WOOD: If I said this
is a brave new world,
I know you would probably agree.
We hear that phrase
all the time.
When something spooky happens
like the NSA gets caught
spying on 50 million
Americans, ooh, it's
a brave new world, right?
Well, "Brave New World" was
written by Aldous Huxley,
right?
He was a Brit.
>>NOORY: A long time ago.
>>WOOD: A long
time ago, in 1932,
the same year that technocracy
was at Columbia University.
He looked across the pond,
saw a social movement
that was going on here
called technocracy,
and used that as the inspiration
to write his book, "Brave New
World."
>>NOORY: Is this for control,
is that what it's all about?
>>WOOD: Absolutely.
Absolutely it is for control.
And if you look at the
United Nations today,
I'm making the connection
between technocracy
and the United Nations.
It got fed to the
UN by the members
of the Trilateral Commission.
>>NOORY: And they fell for it.
>>WOOD: A long time ago.
They fell for it hook,
line, and sinker.
But if you look at
the United Nations
today about things they're doing
with agenda 21, agenda 2030,
with the biodiversity treaty
that was signed back in '92,
you look at these things
and say, what do they
expect of humanity?
And there's all this list of
things that humanity should do.
The biodiversity
treaty, for instance,
said things like golf
courses are not sustainable.
So they consume
too many resources
and they're not worth
the pleasure value.
And they say, well,
cattle are not sustainable
because they fart too much--
too much methane.
And UCLA just recently
said that your pets--
your dog and your cat--
they're not sustainable either
because they produce too much--
>>NOORY: Too much methane.
>>WOOD: That's right.
Oh, so we've got to
cut down on that.
>>NOORY: Do away with
Fido and your kitty.
>>WOOD: That's right.
So you look at all these
dictates and you say,
are these people mad?
The Earth has been just
fine for thousands of years
and we've gotten along and
things haven't fallen apart.
But now this superclass of
engineers and scientists have
risen up to tell us what
we can or cannot do.
Well, if I want to
have a pet and I
want to have a 50-pound
or a 100-pound dog,
that's my business.
>>NOORY: That's your business.
>>WOOD: That's not
their business.
>>NOORY: Are the technocrats
behind the Paris Climate
Control Accord?
>>WOOD: Absolutely.
If you look at the
big scheme of things--
and I'm admittedly
big picture person,
I always try and look at
the biggest picture I can--
climate change was created
as the scare tactic
to scare people into
sustainable development.
It was done by the same people.
It was done back in the
'90s and the roots of it
is traced very easily.
And climate change
is nothing in itself,
but it creates the fear.
And the only solution
that's being offered
by the people saying
climate change,
that's the United
Nations mostly,
is sustainable development.
They say in order to
solve climate change,
you must accept
sustainable development.
They don't say, well,
you have choice A
and choice B. It's just no.
>>NOORY: They don't
give you that choice.
>>WOOD: They don't
Only choice A. This is the
famous old good cop, bad cop
routine, right, where one
guy comes in and beats you up
and in the interview
room and the other guy--
>>NOORY: Scares the
heck out of you.
>>WOOD: --says oh, we
can make you a deal.
Whatever.
And when you look at it
for a long enough time,
this becomes so thin.
People like Al Gore
running around saying
that climate change is
going to kill us all
and that the ice caps
are going to melt
and the oceans are
going to rise--
>>NOORY: The shorelines
will be gone.
>>WOOD: He's been
saying this for so
long and every
prediction he's missed.
And people around the world
now are looking at Al Gore
and they're saying,
are you kidding me?
That old geezer's still around
and the same old stuff he
was saying 15 or 20 years ago?
It's like, give me a break.
This just isn't going
to wash anymore.
So the paradigm is wearing thin
with global warming right now.
>>NOORY: How do the technocrats,
Patrick, feel about new energy
sources and things?
You know, I'm a believer
that oil is not a fossil fuel
but that it's part
of this planet.
>>WOOD: Right.
>>NOORY: So I just believe it.
I don't believe in the
Peak oil theory at all.
And I don't believe
it's fossil fuels.
It's not plants and dinosaurs.
We'd be out of it by now.
How do the technocrats feel
about those kinds of resources?
>>WOOD: Interesting
you mentioned peak oil,
because the co-founder
of technocracy
incorporated originally was M.
King Hubbert, the later founder
in 1954 of Peak oil theory.
So he was in on it from
the beginning, right.
He actually wrote the
technocracy study course
in 1934, which is
still available.
You can scan--
>>NOORY: I knew they
didn't like technocracy.
>>WOOD: There's a reason.
But this idea of
energy control runs
very deep within
the technocrat mind.
The reason is,
among other things,
they believe that
energy is at the root
of all economic activity.
And it really is, even if it--
>>NOORY: It literally
fuels economic activity.
>>WOOD: That's right.
You can't do anything
without energy.
And you say, well, if I
don't have electricity,
I still have my body.
I'm one manpower.
Or if I'm a farmer and I have
a horse, I have a horsepower.
All right.
One horsepower.
>>NOORY: One horsepower.
>>WOOD: So energy
truly is at the root
of all economic activity.
But they believed that they had
to control the output of energy
in order to control
economic output.
That makes logical sense if you
just think about it a minute.
Somebody could have a lever to
control the amount of energy
that's in the economic system.
You would control the
economic output precisely
and exactly every time
you moved the lever.
>>NOORY: Let's look at the
search for more and more oil
and more sophisticated systems.
>>PARAG KHANNA:
Here are just some
of the pipeline projections
and possibilities and scenarios
and routes that are
being mapped out
for the next several decades,
a great deal of them.
For a number of countries
in this part of the world,
having pipelines is
the ticket to becoming
part of the global
economy and for having
some meaning besides the
borders that they are not
loyal to themselves.
Just take Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan was a forgotten
corner of the Caucasus,
but now with the Baku
Tblisi pipeline into Turkey,
it has rebranded itself as
the frontier of the West.
Then there's Turkmenistan,
which most people think
of as a frozen basketcase.
But now it's contributing
gas across the Caspian Sea
to provide for Europe
and even potentially
a Turkmen, Afghan, Pakistan,
India pipeline as well.
Then there's Kazakhstan,
which didn't even
have a name before, it was
more considered South Siberia
during the Soviet Union.
Today, most people recognize
Kazakhstan as an emerging
geopolitical player.
Why?
Because it's shrewdly
designed pipelines
to flow across the Caspian
north through Russia
and even east to China.
More pipelines means
more Silk Roads
instead of the great game.
The great game connotes
dominance of one
over the other.
The Silk Road connotes
independence and mutual trust.
The more pipelines we have,
the more Silk Roads we'll have,
and the less of a dominant
great game competition
will have in the 21st century.
>>NOORY: Now that was,
Patrick, from a Ted talk.
He's right.
The more pipelines,
the more control.
>>WOOD: Right.
The control over energy
has been a policy
that we've seen since
the early 1970s,
by the way, when the Trilateral
Commission kind of rose
in power and influence.
We saw the energy crisis
back in 1973, you remember,
where there were lines
around blocks waiting
to get gasoline and so on.
It was a horrible time.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>WOOD: From that day
forward, the existing energy,
we have been told, is vastly
limited and that it needs to be
controlled and metered and
allocated fairly to the world
and--
>>NOORY: With the prices, of
course, kept at a nice level.
>>WOOD: With the prices
kept up at a nice high level
so that they can manipulate
behavior and make
nice profits, too.
So you have all the
alternative energy sources
today like wind power
and solar power.
And I'm not categorically
against those things,
by the way.
If you've got the money and you
want to buy them and do them,
fine.
It's a free country--
well, it should be.
But the idea of controlling
energy and saying
that while energy
is scarce, we just
don't have enough to go around
and we have to really monitor
it, we have to monitor every
little thing that you do.
We need to know those things.
Are you using too much
according to our scale
or too little or whatever?
Controlling energy is the
reason that fossil fuels,
if you'd call them that--
oil and gas and
natural gas and so on--
why they have been declared
an evil, evil, evil source
of energy.
We shouldn't use those
even though we have enough
to last for at least
200 years with current--
>>NOORY: Maybe longer.
>>WOOD: --with just current
known reserves, right?
So they say, oh, that's evil.
We have to kill that,
we have to kill coal,
we have to cut down
on these things.
Then we need to use all these
other alternative energy
sources.
It's just a scheme to
control economic activity--
>>NOORY: And profit.
>>WOOD: And profit.
And by the way,
Parag Khanna, who
was just on this video, Dr.
Parag Khanna from Singapore,
actually, he's a
professor at the Yew
School for Public Policy.
And he is one of the leading
technocrats in the world today.
>>NOORY: He's really
pushing it, isn't he?
>>WOOD: He is.
He wrote a book in January
of this year, 2017,
called "Technocracy in America."
It's a little yellow book.
I didn't think it was
produced very well,
but he's a global scholar
and they love him.
He's on a "Fortune"
list of like the 70 most
powerful people in the world.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>WOOD: Influential
people in the world.
The guy is a rising
star in every way.
He wrote a book called
"Technocracy in America."
This confirmed and validated
my research in spades.
>>NOORY: That you
were years ahead.
>>WOOD: Well, I saw it coming.
And he just merely put the stamp
on it, right, the rubber stamp.
But in his book, he said
democracy is broken.
He called for direct
technocracy in America.
Other recommendations
he makes in his book,
dismiss the Senate--
>>NOORY: Gone.
>>WOOD: Gone.
Senate gone.
>>NOORY: Congress, Senate gone.
>>WOOD: Replace the
Senate with a council
of governors from the states.
And turn--
>>NOORY: That they
would pick, not us.
>>WOOD: That's right.
That's right.
Turn the Constitution
over to the Supreme Court,
let them update it as they see--
>>NOORY: Sounds like China.
>>WOOD: No kidding.
And he said do away with the
Office of the Presidency.
We need to have
not a presidency,
but we need to have a
committee of presidents.
Yes, it does sound like
China-- exactly like China.
And I would suggest
that that's the reason
that China is the most
esteemed model of technocracy
in the world today.
>>NOORY: 75 people
control China.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: And they make a
lot of money controlling
everything that comes in and
everything that goes out.
>>WOOD: They call all the shots,
basically-- all the shots.
And this is technocracy.
Technocracy in China was
identified as early as 2001,
by the way, that China had been
converted to a technocracy.
It's no longer appropriate
to look at China
and say it's communist Chinese.
There's trappings that make
it look kind of similar--
they still have the
red flag and the red
means oh, it's communist,
and the hammer and sickle.
But those things are not
really appropriate to describe
where China is today.
It is a technocracy.
And you're right,
there's a very few people
and they all have advanced
engineering degrees.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
They're geniuses.
They're smart people.
>>WOOD: They are
geniuses, but they're
engineering the country.
That's the key here.
They're using their
so-called scientific method
to engineer the entire society.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And they'd love to see
it for the entire planet.
>>WOOD: And this is
highly esteemed even
in our country and
the United Nations.
They love China and what
China is doing over there
with how they're managing
things, whatever.
This is not the model
that we want in America.
This is completely antithetic.
>>NOORY: Well, you had
mentioned the United Nations
and how it is pushing
technocracy as well.
>>GEORGE BUSH: Before
us the opportunity
to forge for ourselves
and for future generations
a new world order, a world
where the rule of law,
not the law of the jungle,
governs the conduct of nations.
When we are successful,
and we will be,
we have a real chance
at this new world
order, an order in which a
credible United Nations can
use its peacekeeping role to
fulfill the promise and vision
of the UN's founders.
>>NOORY: Oh, President Bush, Sr.
>>WOOD: What disturbs me most
about that whole thing is he
talks about if we can
create a new world order.
And then he says-- you just
have to watch his inflection--
and we will.
>>NOORY: And we will.
Is he a technocrat?
>>WOOD: He's not
only technocrat,
but he's one of the founding
members of the Trilateral
Commission.
>>WOOD: There you go.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>WOOD: Yet an elected official.
>>WOOD: That's right.
>>NOORY: So under
the new program,
he wouldn't be
elected, but he still
would want to run everything.
>>WOOD: Yes.
Yes.
If I could dare give
me the big picture
again about what this
whole thing is about.
When David Rockefeller met
Zbigniew Brzezinski in 1969--
>>NOORY: Both are gone now.
>>WOOD: They're both gone now.
Brzezinski was a professor
of political science
at Columbia University, the
same place where technocracy
existed.
He wrote a book called
"Between Two Ages:
America's Role in the
Technetronic Era."
And when I discovered early
technocracy, I went back
and I reread his
book to see well,
could he have been
talking about technocracy?
He said technetronic, but
could he have met technocracy?
I read his book again and lo
and behold, I was shocked.
The themes and the
patterns in his book
mirrored early technocracy.
Rockefeller, the money guy--
this is a beauty/beast type
of thing, right--
Rockefeller had the money.
He loved this idea
because it was
a resource-based
economic system.
He saw a way to
grab the resources
of the world in total--
>>NOORY: And control it.
>>WOOD: And control it.
So was Rockefeller a technocrat
and was he a scientist?
No, but he saw the possibilities
of global domination,
economic domination
by throwing out
the entire capitalist system,
replacing it with technocracy
where all of the resources
are locked up under let's call
it a global common trust, where
there's just a few trustees--
>>NOORY: Who would control it.
>>WOOD: Who would control it.
>>NOORY: Divvy it out.
>>WOOD: And would divvy
out licenses to use it.
>>NOORY: To their friends.
>>WOOD: To their friends.
And people like you and I would
not be owning property at all.
We would simply
just be the renters.
>>NOORY: We'd be the sheeple.
>>WOOD: We'd be the sheeple.
God term.
Exactly.
>>NOORY: Patrick, when you
look at technocracy, what's
the most concerning aspect
of it and why as people do
we even give a darn about it?
>>WOOD: The famous
Chinese general--
>>NOORY: Here you go.
>>WOOD: --General Sun
Tzu, right, from, what,
the sixth century, said that if
you do not recognize an enemy--
in "The Art of War"-- if you
do not recognize the enemy,
you cannot defeat him.
That's the biggest
problem right now.
We do not recognize the enemy
that our country is really
facing.
And believe me, it's not what
we see in the news every day.
It's not white nationalism,
it's not the Black Lives Matter,
it's not the political
skirmishes we have,
it's not the political arguments
we have in Washington, DC.
All those things end up being so
much of a smokescreen, really,
for what's going on
behind the scenes.
We need to see the
enemy for who he really
is and expend our energies--
and our anger, I might add.
If we're disturbed
by it, we need
to expend our energies
fighting the right battle.
>>NOORY: Who's the enemy?
Is it us?
>>WOOD: Collectively, no.
I remember Pogo once said, we
found the enemy and he are us.
>>NOORY: And he are us.
>>WOOD: I don't believe that the
enemy is the American people.
I think they're
patsies, I think they're
been manipulated and controlled
into the situation where
they are today.
And I think the
enemy collectively
is going to be seen
as the scientists
and engineers behind the scenes
who were imposing technocracy
on the world.
>>NOORY: Whoever they may be.
>>WOOD: Well, they're
not difficult to find,
but whoever they may be.
And these are the people
we need to focus on.
The bigger problem, of
course, is how do you
get your hands on these people?
You can't throw
them out of office
because they're not in office.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>WOOD: People
like Eric Schmidt,
for instance, the
head of Google,
he's a member of the
Trilateral Commission.
How do you get rid Eric Schmidt?
Well, you can't.
>>NOORY: And he's
too wealthy to.
>>WOOD: You can't fire him and
he's got billions of dollars.
It's a very difficult--
you can't get them
directly like we
used to be able to get
our political people.
You look at Silicon
Valley, across the board
you've got several
people who stand out
like an Elon Musk
and a Peter Thiel
and others like Eric
Schmidt and other people
like that who are
incredibly powerful,
Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook.
They're incredibly
powerful individuals
who, other than being
script kiddy coders--
>>NOORY: They're
smart at what they do.
>>WOOD: They're smart at
what they did, but does
that give them any
brainiac insights
into how to manage society?
I don't think so.
>>NOORY: Probably not.
>>WOOD: It really doesn't.
>>NOORY: Who benefits
under all this?
>>WOOD: Well, they
do, certainly.
They certainly benefit
from the culture
that they're
creating this stuff.
But in the end of it, and I have
to say, go back to this again.
In the end of it,
the big picture
is to strip private
property away from people
and basically to take what
little we have even now,
what little we have,
take it away where
we end up being a nation of
renters and in some cases
a nation of hobos.
>>NOORY: Why will government
allow this to happen?
>>WOOD: Government,
for the most part,
are the useful idiots
of the technocrats.
Just like in the old days, when
the Soviet Revolution was going
on, they had the intelligentsia
of being the useful idiots that
supported them.
In the end of it when the
revolution got its way,
they went back and they threw
all those people under the bus.
Our politicians are going to be
thrown under the bus one day.
I don't think they realize
this, but they will
be expendable at some point.
Dr. Parag Khanna
pretty much said that
in his book,
"Technocracy in America."
They are expendable and
they're useless, no good
for any good thing.
Some people would agree
with that right now
because it's pretty pathetic.
But they're going to be thrown
under the bus at some point.
>>NOORY: What percent
of our lifestyle
do you think is technocratic?
>>WOOD: I would say
probably at this point,
we're approaching 80%.
>>NOORY: Are you kidding?
>>WOOD: I'm not kidding you.
>>NOORY: And people
don't even realize it.
>>WOOD: They don't realize it.
Look at how many people-- have
you ever walked down the street
and watched people looking
at their cell phones?
>>NOORY: Sure.
They ram into a
pole or something.
>>WOOD: And they run
into poles and stuff.
These people are plugged in.
They don't even know
it, for the most part.
They're plugged into
this technocratic system.
All of the data that gets
collected on your cell phone--
the music you listen
to, the things
that you read, all
the apps that you
use-- it's sucking a
constant stream of data
and feeding it into
the global big data.
>>NOORY: The global
brain, I call it.
>>WOOD: That's right.
The global brain is
sucking data out from you.
Then you've got smart grid,
you've got your e-mails,
you've got phone calls
and everything else.
All this data is being
extracted from you
and used for either
commercial endeavor--
selling it they make
big money, and that
is for the purpose of
manipulating you, by the way,
because it's hugely
manipulative.
When you have the
data on somebody,
you can manipulate their
behavior significantly.
So we're already in
that system, you see.
Smart grid has been implemented
all around the world.
You've got the spy agencies
around the world that
are collecting data on
citizens willy nilly
and they're rogue at this
point, completely rogue.
They won't stop.
Even though Congress tells
the NSA and CIA to stop,
they won't stop.
>>NOORY: They won't stop.
>>WOOD: They're found
out six months later.
Oh, you're doing the same--
oh, you're doing more than
what you did back when
we slapped you the last time.
So they're collecting
this stuff.
We're already enmeshed in this.
And personally, I
don't think there's
a whole lot of time left just on
a linear calendar for somebody
to come up with a
creative idea on how
to throw a monkey wrench.
>>NOORY: Do you
think it's too late?
>>WOOD: I don't know.
>>NOORY: I mean,
what will it take
to implement the remaining
20%, and do they even
need to do that now?
>>WOOD: For them, just time.
I think it's just time.
>>NOORY: That would be, to me,
throwing out elected officials
and people like that
still remaining 20%.
>>WOOD: We already know our
elected officials are impotent.
They've been marginalized now
for, what, at least 40 years.
It's a process.
But now, everybody distrusts the
political body in our country.
I mean, the approval
rate is down to like 10%.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>WOOD: That means all Democrats
and all Republicans essentially
look at Congress and spit.
They're just like,
this ain't working.
And so there's already
a huge groundswell
of angst against the political
structure as it sits today,
where if somebody
comes along and says,
you know, why don't we
just get rid of the bums,
like Parag Khanna
for instance, right?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>WOOD: Let's just
get rid of the bums
and do something differently.
>>NOORY: Well, and
people may agree to that.
>>WOOD: What can it hurt?
The people might say, hey man--
>>NOORY: Let's go for it.
>>WOOD: Let's go for it.
>>NOORY: And it's a trap.
>>WOOD: And it would be a trap.
>>NOORY: I'll tell
you another trap
is if we do away with cash.
I like cash.
I think it's kind
of neat to have.
But this world is
moving digitally.
I mean, this Bitcoin
phenomenon to me
is moving faster
than we can handle.
>> The Legal Tender Act and
legal tender laws generally
around the world act as a
kind of monopoly advantage
to central bank currency.
The downside of competition
is, from the government's
perspective, they're no
longer able to affect
monetary policy in the way
that they would like to.
Now, many would say that the
legal tender laws are necessary
and allow the government
to conduct monetary policy.
So in a sense, having
a monopoly power
is good for the government.
Now, whether you think this
is a good thing or a bad thing
is going to depend on
your view of government.
Some would have the view that,
because the government is
all of us, we want to confer
a sort of monopoly privilege
on the government.
And some have the view that a
federal government, at least,
is an entity separate
from us and is
beholden to all sorts
of special interests
and it's subject to all
sorts of political pressures
that don't necessarily lever
down to the good of all
of society and so giving
them this monopoly
is really not great
for society writ large.
Many think that the
real benefit of Bitcoin
is going to be in
settlement across borders
and going to be in places
in the developing world
where they don't have the
kind of monetary stability
that we have in the US.
No one has any
doubts that something
that costs $1 yesterday
is going to cost $1 today.
But this is not true
in developing countries
like Zimbabwe or in
places like Argentina,
for instance, where they have
a major currency problem.
So these countries are using
Bitcoin as a store of value
and they know that it's
going to fluctuate less--
the price of Bitcoin is
going to fluctuate less
and perhaps it might
even appreciate more
than their own currency.
So in the developed
world, many think
that Bitcoin plays a tangential
role, which is one reason why
some people say, if you would
were to repeal legal tender
laws with respect to
digital currencies,
it wouldn't be
that big of a deal.
But it's really in
the developing world
and in places that don't
have stable political regimes
and stable monetary situations
that something like Bitcoin,
which isn't susceptible
to political pressures,
is going to be able to thrive.
>>NOORY: I wouldn't put my
money into Bitcoin, would you?
>>WOOD: I wouldn't
either at this point,
certainly not as
a store of value.
If I wanted to make an
anonymous transaction somewhere,
I might use Bitcoin just to
flip some money back and forth
between two people where
it can't be tracked.
But the idea behind
the cashless society
today-- this is
a global program,
it's not just in America.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>WOOD: They
started out in India
extracting the larger bills
in India from circulation.
They also put limits
on gold ownership.
>>NOORY: Sounds like the old
days, when they took our gold.
>>WOOD: I know.
But you know what, wealth is
on the chopping block here.
That's the message, first off.
The big goal in technocracy
is to get wealth away
from the people in general.
One way to do it now
is to remove cash
from society and force everybody
into the digital system.
You see, there's about 20%,
25% of the world that is not
anywhere close to the digital--
>>NOORY: And they can
control your digital--
>>WOOD: They want
them in the system.
So the only way to do that,
take cash out; give them
a plastic card; and say,
you're now in the system
whether you want to be
in the system or not.
>>NOORY: And get a chip,
too, implanted in your body.
>>WOOD: You might, but
the chip in my eye--
I use to get all
excited about the chip.
I don't anymore because
they know 50 other ways
to identify you at a distance.
They can look at your
face with a camera,
they have algorithms that
are how you walk; your gait,
because it's all different.
They've figured out now they can
look at your iris in your eye.
They can look at DNA stuff
now, which you've got--
I mean, there's all kinds
of ways to identify you.
A chip is almost
an afterthought.
>>NOORY: Where is
it headed, Patrick?
What's your prediction of
what's going to happen?
>>WOOD: It's headed
towards more control
and is headed towards
scientific dictatorship.
Wealth is on the chopping
block, private property
is being wiped out
all around the world.
And as we know, economic freedom
depends on private property.
>>NOORY: And this will
be done worldwide?
>>WOOD: It is being
done worldwide.
Agenda 21 and 2030 agenda,
which I should specify.
Agenda 21 started in 1992
by the United Nations.
2030 agenda was the
recent update to Agenda 21
by the United Nations.
And this is the most
anti-private property program
that we've ever seen in
the history of the planet.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
And it's being done where
people don't even feel it.
They don't.
It's just chip it away
a little bit at a time.
They don't come in with a gun
and say, give me your property.
>>NOORY: We'd fight back.
>>WOOD: We'd fight
back for that.
But what they do is they
degrade your property rights
little by little through
zoning and things.
>>NOORY: And the value.
>>WOOD: And the value.
>>NOORY: But your property
tax keeps going up.
>>WOOD: And all of
a sudden, you've
got this property but you
can't do what you want.
You can't develop it the way
you want because they say,
no, no, no, no.
You can't do it that way.
That's not sustainable
or that doesn't
take care of two-toed
frog or whatever
and you have to do it our way.
And you say, wait,
that's my property.
I bought this 15 years
ago, I can do what I want.
No, you can't.
>>NOORY: Not anymore.
>>WOOD: Not anymore.
>>NOORY: Eminent
domain they call it.
>>WOOD: Now, is it
your property still?
Well, you're going
to pay the tax bill.
>>NOORY: When it all
happens, will we fight back?
>>WOOD: I think there's a
growing number of people that
are waking up to this, George.
I really do.
And I think programs
like this I think just
do immense good to raise
people's sensitivity to what's
going on.
>>NOORY: Because many
people don't even
know what's going on.
>>WOOD: They need to
see the big picture.
Well, look, a lot of
people are disturbed
about elements of this.
They're disturbed about
cash being removed,
they're disturbed about
EMF and smart grid.
>>NOORY: But they
don't see that picture.
>>WOOD: They need to
see the big picture
and see that these things
are related to each other
and that there is a fifth
column of actors behind it
who could probably be dealt
with if enough people would
recognize who they are.
>>NOORY: It's stopped
before it happens.
>>WOOD: It's stopped.
>>NOORY: You've got
this ability to talk
to everybody watching "Beyond
Belief" right now, Patrick.
What is your major
message to them?
>>WOOD: Lay down your arms.
Quit fighting each other.
It is so critical that we
bring some healing to America.
We all live in this
country, we are Americans.
I don't care about your
political persuasion.
During World War
II, it didn't matter
if you were in a foxhole with a
Democrat, Republican, liberal,
whatever.
What mattered was can
you trust each other
and you were fighting
for the same cause.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>WOOD: We need to lay
down arms in this country.
And I don't mean
just baseball bats
and whatever, but we need
to quit fighting each other
and say, you know what,
maybe we should just
sit back, take a deep breath,
and take stock of where
we are in this whole process.
>>NOORY: And be thankful.
>>WOOD: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Patrick, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>WOOD: My pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: It's called
"Technocracy Rising,"
an incredible book with an
incredible story about what
they want to do to us.
Don't let it happen.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]